Chapter 7
=========
Diplomatic Contact 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Written June 14th, 2023

.. 2023.07.14

.. todo:: This needs to be rewritten, I think. The start is good, but the end is fucking awful.

Central Calendar, Day 14 Month 1 1640, Transit to Mu
----------------------------------------------------

The battle at Vauxnia had been beneficial in many ways, especially from an information gathering standpoint. During the battle they had learned about the worlds' weapons and military technology, while the now safe Vauxnians had been more than happy to talk at length about their allies, the Mu Empire. Until recently regarded as the second strongest power on their planet, they appeared to have been eclipsed by the newly powerful Gra Valkan Empire.

Finley Price was on his way in a specially outfitted diplomatic SX-23. Wary of the normality that the Vauxnians spoke of their war mongering neighbors, a fully equipped squad of U.S.F.D.F. soldiers was ready, though would not leave the vehicle unless needed. Based on the exploration model instead of the military support craft, it had sensors for everything, as well as sustainment for long duration missions. With a secured communication system on board as well, it was perfect as almost a mobile embassy. What could easily be mistaken as an office was on the starboard side, across from the mini barracks for the soldiers. The other diplomats on the flight were once again excited. After the discovery of almost historical references to Gra Valkan armament, everyone had been discussing what type of country Mu would be. Would it also map onto an ancient Earth civilization or would it be its own beast?

"The anticipation is killing me. I wonder if they'll respond to the radio signals we are sending out." Finley's subordinates had all become antsy and had bets going for what kind of civilization Mu would be.

"I'm heading up to the bridge to check in with the pilots."

Mu Military Base near Otaheit
-----------------------------

"Sir, I'm picking something up on the radio, but it makes no sense. We have no reports of anything in that direction, and what it's saying makes less sense."

"Play it on the speakers."

Finley's voice carried throughout the signals department.

*"Greetings, Mu. My name is Finley Price, diplomat for the United Systems Frontier on Omuen 6. We have previously made contact with an island, Vauxnia, and have learned about your country. We would like to begin diplomatic proceedings with the Empire of Mu on good terms. Please respond if we are cleared to land at one of your airports or heliports."*

"They have been sending on this frequency for the past 15 minutes. We've figured it's not something from the Gra Valkans. What do we do with something like this, sir?"

The head of the signals section on the base was just as confused as his subordinates. If this was a diplomatic mission then he would have to get the Foreign Affairs Bureau. While the signals department verified and analyzed the radio message, they would let the Bureau decide what they should actually end up doing.

"Send the message to the Foreign Affairs Bureau. They'll want to hear this. For now, let's triangulate and figure out where they are sending this from."

Otaheit, Foreign Affairs Bureau
-------------------------------

"Yes, we'll figure it out right away. This might be another new country..." Marian was speaking with the Emperor on the urgent wire line. Only to be used in dire situations, this felt like one. Who the hell even were the "United Systems Frontier?" No one had ever even head of something like that. Sure, smaller nations had united in the past, but that hadn't happened for almost a decade near Mu.

Reading through the transcript the signals department had sent over, he was a bit perplexed. They had no reason to stop them from coming, technically, but the nature of their message and the way it was worded seemed almost too polite. Maybe the meeting with the Gra Valkans earlier in the month had ruined his diplomatic senses.

It was up to him, though. They were requesting an airport or "heliport," another curiosity. Whatever that was, they could offer up a civilian airport near Otaheit. If they had a plane, they must have traded with the Mirishials or Parpaldians, and they must be from a nearby island, but the name sounded nothing like a name from the islands. It may not be a good idea to let them land at a civilian airport, just in case.

*Shit, we should also be sending out an escort. Ah, I'll let the military deal with that.*

"Oiranne, tell the signals guys to reply. Send them to the military base near Otaheit, Fort Duchamp. Oh, and make sure they send planes to escort them. I'm sure they'll think of that themselves." Orianne nodded and left to her own office to make the calls.

*Let's see who this 'United Systems Frontier' is.*

Fifteen minutes later, Marian entered a car to the military base.

Airspace East of Otaheit
------------------------

The Mu fighters they sent were brand new models, impressive new single-wing fighters that they thought could challenge the Gra Valkans in air combat.

After the base had radioed to the United Systems Frontier ship landing coordinates, they had received their approach vector. Notified of the escort fighters, the U.S.F. was unperturbed and simply asked for their cruising speed. Conservative numbers were relayed to not give away specifications on their newly designed aircraft.

Approaching the vector with his wingman, Victor was expecting to see a biplane, maybe even an old transport plane floating through the sky at a stately pace.

He was, to put it mildly, surprised. The--well, it wasn't really an aircraft. It didn't have a propeller or wings or anything that, to Victor, made it a plane.

*What keeps you up? Is this some magic Mirishial stuff?*

Victor and his wingman went on either side of the craft, flying with it all the way to the base. When it landed, it simply slowed to a near halt and came down softly on the runway, the sides of the ship rotating 90 degrees independently while feet came out from below.

---

It touched down so softly that Marian was still waiting for it to finish landing. The sheer power of it had almost blown his hat off, and when the platform descended from the center of the ship, he almost lost his hat. The smooth, almost fuzzy appearance of the craft was identical to the pictures they had of the suspected Gra Valkan craft they had pictures of. Seeing it in person he realized that it must have been much higher than they thought. This ship was massive, dwarfing even the massive bombers that Mu had begun developing only recently. It almost seemed more a sky ship than a plane.

A single man walked off the platform, waving a greeting towards Marian.

"Hello!" he shouted, trying and somehow succeeding at overcoming the engines as they spun down. As he walked briskly to Marian, he waved to the ship behind him. Marian could see no windows, and wondered who he was waving to. Finley, or so Marian assumed this man was, reached out and grasped Marian's hand strongly. "It's good to meet you! Are you the diplomat I was set to meet with?"

They began the walk towards the main base hangar where Marian was originally planning to meet with Finley. After seeing their ship and the sheer power of it, he wondered if this was too informal.

"It's a pleasure to meet you," Marian finally replied once the noise of the engines receded. "That is surely an interesting craft you came in on. We were expecting a plane like ours or the Mirishial's. This is something I, at least, have never seen."

"Oh, that old thing. Sadly it's all we have, now, but it'll do for what we need," he said, eyeing the table they had set out on the edge of the hangar. "Is this where we're meeting?"

Marian assured him it was, that this was just a quick place they got ready for them at such short notice.

---

"So...you're saying that your entire expedition was transported to this world?"

Finley nodded. "According to our scientists, the stars don't map up where we used to be. We've gathered that we're still in our galaxy, but that's it, so far."

The stoic face seemed to Finley to be proof that the man across from him was a good diplomatic plyer, but he didn't yet know Mu's history.

"It's interesting that it's happened twice that we know of, now. First our continent, then your expedition."

*First our continent? What?*

"Sorry, let me give a quick history lesson about our country." Marian hadn't expected to have to do this, as it should be relatively common knowledge around the world.

.. TODO:: FLESH THIS OUT

"Around twelve centuries ago, the entire Mu continent disappeared from a planet we called 'Earth.' At the time, we were one of two major powers in that world. Then, suddenly, we found ourselves isolated, completely removed from the world we once knew. In completely unfamiliar territory, the once unified land of Mu split, and smaller states were formed on the south and west side of the continent. After meeting some of the other populations on the planet through our ships, we began trading, but were at a disadvantage because of our lack of magic. No one in Mu is naturally talented with magic, so we have spent over a millennia improving our technology to the point you see it now. Our modern ships, planes, automobiles and building materials can compete against even the magic kingdoms around this world.

"The people who live here now are people of the new world, it's been a millennia since anyone here actually remembers the old world, but we have records in our museums."

"Fascinating..." Finley almost couldn't contain his enthusiasm. *I have to see one of these museums.*

"It's only fair that you now tell me more about your people and your situation, Mr. Price. If we didn't know better, we might say you're part of the Ravernal Empire, but I'm still standing so I'd venture a guess that's not where you're from."

"No, sorry. I've never heard of any of this place before. The United Systems is a massive group of star systems that were inhabited by our peers. Most of them stayed "

.. TODO:: Maybe this turns into its own chapter? some flashbacks to ancient Mu
  and the pre-transfer USF? God, I'm so bad at writing dialogue...




