Chapter 2: Conquest
===================

Central Calendar, Day 8 Month 12 1639, North of Galahad Islands
---------------------------------------------------------------

From the bridge of the supply vessel one could see dozens of screens flooding you with information. Above the clouds the AluGlass sheets simply looked at a massive expanse of deep blue underscored by fluffy white clouds. Below the clouds were oceans, currents, even green land far in the distance.

Of particular interest were the radio waves emanating from near one of the islands. The vessel that had been sent to space had a pretty rough estimate of what the map of this planet looked like, with a few major continental zones surrounded by islands. Currently north of the gap between two of these islands, Casey and his craft were converging on an island that appeared to be near some form of radio communication. Buildings, farmland and other civilization structures had been found from the space-based vessel, but nothing that would have been to the level of the Corpos or other frontier bases.

"The radio signals we're picking up, one of them almost seems like analog sound recordings."

"Try and decode it and send it through the audio system."

"It's not even encoded, just raw analog sounds...the power output for it is terrible, but I'll try to route what we pick up through the system."

*"--gency. Please--Mu emp--spare--epeating--thirty. Em--"*

Well, at least it seems like whoever is here speaks a common language, but the transmission power is so low.

"Bring us closer to the source of the radio output that we just heard. I want to get a better idea of what they're saying."

The craft lurched forward, the gravity compensators taking a microsecond to adjust as the pilot accelerated.

Central Calendar, Day 8 Month 12 1639, Galahad Islands
------------------------------------------------------

Overhead the small swarm of aircraft darkened the sky. It seemed like the new western country had decided to move further east. There had been talk of a country that took over some islands west of Mu. No one expected this new country to ever get into Mu and especially not past them.

But what they were seeing above made them question that sentiment. Mu was a powerful country and a major air power, but few of their planes could even reach this far from the continent, let alone the dozens flying above, and especially not ones this fast.

Using the old mechanical communicator that Mu had left to signal for ships and shipments, the head of the dock, Namys, started frantically requesting help from their neighbor. It probably wouldn't come, and this was just the lot for most uncivilized countries, but to not try would be condemning her family to death or slavery, if the stories were anything to go by.

"Emergency. Please help, we are currently being attacked. Galahad needs everything the Mu empire can spare. Repeating in thirty seconds...Emergency broadcast..."

Namys had been told to keep repeating the message until she got a response. Not expecting one, she thought it was hopeless, but something she had to do. Mu were their friends, maybe not formal allies, but at least trading partners.

"...Repeating in thirty seconds."

She released the broadcast switch, and counted down from thirty.

*Thirty. Twenty nine. Twenty eight. Twenty--*

*"Casey to Galahad. We have recieved your message, but we don't understand. What is the 'Mu Empire' and who is attacking you?"*

Dumbfounded at the response first, she then tried to parse the response and was dumbfounded again. 'What is the Mu empire'? Who even asks such a thing?

"Casey, what do you mean? We're being attacked by about 30 small mechanical aircraft. And...if you're responding, you should know who the Mu are..."

No one else would be able to send such a clear message through this kind of device. Some of the islands south probably could, but it wouldn't sound this crisp.

*"Casey to Galahad. Sorry, we're just a research group. We'll do what we can but we make no promises. You should keep broadcasting for better help. Is there a place we can land on your island?"*

Just her luck. Someone doing research wouldn't be able to fight, but maybe they could see what was going on and tell the rest of the world. Also, the island didn't have any kind of airstrip, but a plane had landed in one of the open fields east of their village before when it had engine troubles.

"We have no airstrip, but there is a large clearing near the center of the island."

*"That should work. We see the clearing and well be landing soon."*

*Stay safe,* she thought.

Central Calendar, Day 8 Month 12 1639, Above Galahad
----------------------------------------------------

The supply ship was built for carrying cargo, and the cargo area was almost empty. Near the pilots quarters was a small emergency hatch with weapons, in the event of a bad landing or pirate activity they could be used, but there wasn't much in there. A couple rifles for the pilot and copilot, two pistols, and some smoke grenades for signalling. Nothing near what would be needed to fight off any kind of invading force, but the two researchers and two pilots could at least defend themselves.

Due to the unknown nature of their current situation, everyone had survival and protection systems ready to go, with basic emergency landing systems, filters, batteries, protective plates and helmets. While Simulacra are pretty tough, they still require power and at least some kind of protection against physical threats.

They had spotted the clearing near the radio signal and decided that it was too far, so they would drop in from above and let the ship work on autonomous mode.

"Tower, this is Casey. We have found some people with what appears to be an ancient radio. Activating protocol 4, protection"

The frontier groups were usually not allowed to interfere with native species, however if there are humans on the planet and they are sufficiently advanced, usually some kind of radio information, the protection protocol could be used to defend them from native life or Corpos trying to erradicate them.

As no one had found a civilization with radio capability yet, it had never actually been used. This was a very, very special circumstance.

*"Casey, repeat. You're saying you found a civilization that uses radio?"*

"Yes, we have. Tell the other supply ships to get to our position. We might need some help from the defense force soon, as well. They appear to be getting invaded by someone with what look like...propeller planes."

*"Confirmed. Sending your scans to the defense force and other vessels. They should be there ASAP."*

The side loading hatch opened and each person checked their landing systems for faults and proper attachment before checking their neighbors. They were going to send one last message to the radio operator below before their jump. Casey waited for the 30 second gap in the transmission before sending their alert.

"Galahad, this is Casey. We will be coming in at your position, please don't be alarmed."

Before the radio operator could reply, they sealed their helmets, stowed their weapons and jumped. Not needed for the Simulacra to breathe, they were still useful for their optical sensors.

-------

The journey was short, but as they were falling, they went past some of the planes the opreator had talked about. Sure enough, they were single-wing propeller planes, like something out of an ancient history book. Casey had heard of some frontier towns bringing them back for entertainment, but these appeared to be armed, something rare for these types of craft, even in the more lawless places.

Terminal velocity was reached, and just before the ground the micro-jets in the landing systems kicked in, reorienting them and slowing them at quite an uncomfortable rate.

The small thatch roofs of the village they saw from space weren't just there to camouflage. They were actually just huts made of stone and wood. Minimal metal, almost no glass. This must actually be some kind of Primative-emulating frontier village. Everyone had heard of them. People went to a new world and wanted to live like their ancestors, but they obviously fell off everyones radar pretty quickly, most presumed to have sputtered out and failed to become self-sufficient.

This place seemed to have farms, fishing boats, and even some kind of power for radio equipment, and none of it matched up to Frontier specs, or was even really close. The power outputs, the wavelengths, everything just seemed different.

They quickly moved to the building the radio transmissions were coming from and searched for an entrance of some kind. Near where they had landed, on what looked like a dirt road of some sort, was a sign. None of the translation programs could decipher it, but the image of an ancient anchor told them it was some kind of ship-related building. Below it was a grey wooden door, fatigued by the elements but still solid.

Casey knocked, hoping this was okay.

A relatively tall, blonde woman opened the door and stopped halfway through a sentence, stunned.

"You need to get out of the village, They're--"

She looked Casey up and down, eyes widening. Casey's left hand held the jump helmet he took off to be more personable, but the mechanical nature of his limbs and torso was obviously evident. Namys had seen mechanical ships, planes, even the inner workings of an engine, but the mechanical limbs, torso and even face were all something brand new to her.

"Are you...Casey? Where's your airship?"

"Yes. It's up there, still." He pointed up vertically, and she looked up, only seeing clouds. "We jumped, since the airstrip is pretty far away."

"You jumped?!"

It had been maybe 20 seconds since they said they would be landing. She thought they were going to be at the airbase, and her bag was packed by the door to leave, almost all of her important belongings stowed away. Mu had yet to respond.

"We detected a large metal ship in the waters west of here, though it was not sending radio messages. Smaller ships are bout an hour from reaching your shore at their current pace."

If they had flown in they should have seen them, though she didn't know where their craft could possibly be. Whatever, four people couldn't do anything in this situation, and they only had an hour. The next people to get here would be the invaders land force.

"Wherever your ship is, we should get to it and try to take off out of here."

"There's not any need for that. We noticed the people evacuating this area, but we have friends coming that should be able to help. Since you're an advanced civilization, we can protect you from other forces."

"But you're just researchers." Looking the mechanical exosystem up and down, she couldn't see any large weapons or cannons or sense any magic auras. "I heard that the people invading us took down a superpower to the west, so a few researchers just won't cut it for saving us."

"Hold on a minute." Casey's eyes went blank as he queried the vessel above, "we've only got half an hour, the smaller ships increased their speed."


Central Calendar, Day 8 Month 12 1639, Waters West of Galahad
-------------------------------------------------------------

The Gra Valkan light carrier *Capelin* and her aviation group were on a strict radio silence policy for this invasion. They had heard that Mu used radios, so broadcasting at all would give away their location. Luckily, the port had broadcast already, so they were able to get a good idea of the ports location.

"Our landing craft should arrive in 30 minutes. No sign of movement from the Mu." The radio operator was an expert in understanding and finding signals using the passive receiving array on the ship, and he would catch any ship that even tried to send radio traffic to this barbaric island.

An important part of their disruption of Mu's shipping, this island, dubbed Galahad according to sources in Mu, barely had any people but made a perfect staging area for an invasion of the Central Continent. Large enough and with a sheltered bay, even their largest class of battleship and carrier could stage from there.

"10 minutes, sir." He checked the ships clock one more time. "The fighters should start their attack runs soon." Not that we need to. What could 200 barbarians do against the Gra Valkas Empire? A single battleship had destroyed one of the largest countries in this world.

The commander also checked the clock, affirming. "Let's get ready to start up the radio transmitters again soon. Once we have this island, we should begin construction right away."


