Chapter 2
=========
Invasion
~~~~~~~~

Written June 7th, 2023

.. 2023.06.07

Central Calendar, Day 8 Month 12 1639, Vauxnia Islands
------------------------------------------------------

Everyone had come out to see what was happening. Even the early drinkers in the tavern had taken their cups out to find out what was going on. A smattering of clouds made it difficult to truly ascertain anything high in the sky.

"Is it Mu finally coming with their metal dragons?"

"No, this doesn't sound like them. I go there on the ship and they sound completely different from this. It's got to be the Mirishial's magic jet fliers."

"No, this definitely sounds like a Mu metal dragon."

From the clouds descended a single mechanical fighter, approaching at a very steep angle. It was unlike anything the villagers had seen in Mu, with a single set of wings and a metal and glass cockpit. Lacking the upper wings of the Mu biplanes, it was definitely not something from their friend and ally.

Suddenly, dozens of them broke through the cloud layer, all flying directly towards the coastal village.

"This isn't Mu! They must be attacking!"

Panic spread through the small crowd, and rightly so, as the lead fighter let fly some of his ordinance. The 20mm cannon rounds arced into one of the houses, blasting the wood beams supporting it to splinters and spreading roofing material over a wide swath.

Most of the people ran away from the destroyed house, but some were injured and others simply lay there, unmoving. On the beach, large gray metal ships sped up onto the shore, lowering the frontal ramp and letting out a contingent of troops and metal land dragons.

A few of the people had been armed, a normal thing for the wilds of Vauxnia, but they stood no chance against the automatic fire directed at them.

Flagship Capelin, 100km West of Vauxnia
---------------------------------------

"I told you, this place is basically uninhabited. Mu trades with them for their small oil reserves, but this will be a perfect staging area to surround them." Savlik's dark, beady eyes glistened as he listened to the radio reports from the pilots.

Rear Admiral Hannaz agreed. "We'll have to get the construction crews working overtime, there isn't any infrastructure here to work with." Massive mechanical diggers, cranes and other vehicles were ready to be transported by the second amphibious assault ship, solely dedicated to building up airbases and fleet facilities on the islands they quietly conquered. Tankers and supply ships would move in to fill cisterns with fuel and populate runways with aircraft, but the building would be done before they arrived.

"Sir, the landing craft report that the island is theirs. We aren't getting any signals from the southwest, so Mu hasn't retaliated. This should be an easy one."

Vauxnia
-------

All the men had been gathered by the docks, the women and children by the main general store inland. Namys, the leader of Vauxnia, had been taken into the dock facilities, the largest and nicest building still standing.

Half of the buildings and a third of the population had been destroyed. When a group of men decided to fight back, they were mercilessly slaughtered, their bodies ruthlessly tossed into one of the burning buildings at the edge of town. The small landing force they sent was over double the size of the entire village, and they walked around gawking at the buildings and people around them. With