Chapter 5
=========
Sinking
~~~~~~~

Written June 12th, 2023

.. 2023.07.12

Central Calendar, Day 9 Month 12 1639, Vauxnia Harbor
-----------------------------------------------------

Egon looked out at the town as gunfire erupted across the entire island, starting and quickly stopping as the men from the sky sprinted through the entire town.

*What even are they? This must be some kind of magic!*

Until now, even this worlds magic had barely been able to scratch the armor of their tanks, and it definitely hadn't allowed people to drop without any kind of parachute through the skies.

Looking up in the sky, Egon finally saw it: the slight color change in the sky from the non-reflective body of one of the AS-23 ground support craft. To him it looked like an alien, completely foreign even to this world. He'd seen dragons, magical cannons, even mages summoning lightning, but this was different. The blurry diamond seemed to grow a curved horn, and that's when Egon's stomach dropped.

Someone in the bridge had also seen it and screamed, "INCOM--" but they didn't make it as the explosion engulfed the ship, showering those inside with broken glass and metal.

---

*"All ships damaged, we've taken out their control centers."*

Three of the CV-8 IFVs advanced from behind cover to the shipping warehouse. They may have modern composite armor, but a half-meter wide shell is still a force to be reckoned with. With the gunner lobbing 36mm shells into windows and through enemy vehicles, the resistance that Jaime Bates was seeing was minimal to say the least. The active protection system had shot down a slow moving enemy rocket, but that was the only real threat that it detected.

The gate whirred quickly open. "EVERYONE OUT! LET'S GO!" Jaime shouted to his men, spurring them into swift action. Smoke grenades were deployed around the vehicles, blinding anyone without their thermal optics.

"Breaching!"

Ahead of him the breaching charges had been set, designed to break doors and walls down without damaging things behind. Now all three of them blew and flash-bang grenades were launched inside, blinding and deafening anyone nearby. Jaime's helmet filtered out the sound, and he led his squad into the room. Over one hundred men were sitting on the floor, hands bound, lined up in neat rows in the warehouse. They were trying to cover their ears and eyes any way they could.

Men in gray jackets flooded in from the rooms around the main area, which were quickly dispatched with stun launchers from Jaime's team members. Overall, 40 Gra Valkans were stunned and captured. They hadn't had a chance to fire a single round before they were taken as prisoners. All of the Vauxnian men in the building were alive, if a bit dazed. Ava had told him to raise his visor, something he rarely, if ever, did.

Now he did, stowing his weapon and raising his hands. His five squad members followed suit. The other two squads went upstairs to clear the rest of the building, leaving them alone with the Vauxnians.

Outside the 103mm shells from their AS-23 could be heard slamming into the metal hulls of the Gra Valkan ships, disabling cannons and flooding compartments.

"We're here to help." Jaime waved at two of his men to go untie the nearest Vauxnians.

At first they retreated, but once they saw the knives Jaime's men were wielding were to cut their bindings, they almost started clambering over one another to thank the squad.

---

The Gra Valkan planes were state of the art. The inverted V-12 engine produced enough power to reach almost 650 km/h, and the new maneuverability upgrades they had finally figured out after the transfer to the new world made it unbeatable in a dogfight. The extra fuel tanks they carried for reconnaissance made them slower and less agile, but nothing in this world could come close even with the handicap. And these were just the ones light and small enough to be used on an aircraft carrier.

None of their radios were working so they were all just flying a predetermined route, but each of them carried droppable colored flags for emergencies.

Suddenly, the aircraft far out to the right burst into flames. No signal had been dropped. This wasn't an engine failure, those were nowhere near this large. As the aircraft escaped the smoke, Tobias could see that the aircraft had been mercilessly destroyed. He instantly dropped the large, red flag, hoping that the aircraft to his left would see and drop theirs, but when he looked over, Kuno had been shot down as well.

They hadn't seen any aircraft or ships out here, so what was doing this? Tobias quickly and automatically dropped the extra fuel tank, even though there was still some left, and started running evasive maneuvers for enemies he couldn't even see. Out of the corner of his eye he spotted it, a fuzzy, diamond that didn't seem to even be a single color. It shifted as the angle changed. From below it came a series of flashes, guns, as it fired on the him. At that distance he expected the rounds to take some time reaching him, but he was in for a rude awakening, when the tail and left wing of his aircraft were suddenly and violently ripped away from him.

The force of the round almost threw him out of the cockpit as his plane fell precipitously into the ocean, now uncontrollable.

---

*"That's the last scouting plane done for."*

