Chapter 3
=========
First Contact
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Written June 7th, 2023

.. 2023.07.07

---

Central Calendar, Day 8 Month 12 1639, Night, Vauxnia Islands
-------------------------------------------------------------

The sun had finally set, but the horrors unfolding below were still ongoing. Namys had been brought separately to get the construction crews ready, but when she was escorted back to the women's quarters, there were even less than before. In the streets the bodies had been cleared up, but the aftermath of slaughter was everywhere.

Namys and the other workers had been told what they would be doing, and none of it made anything better. Even though the Gra Valkans had machinery to move the earth, they still needed hands to do some of the work, and who better to do that than the new slaves of the Empire.

It was the cold that really started to bite. With most of the buildings in disrepair, the cold began to sap what little energy remained from the inhabitants. Resistance had felt like a reasonable thing in the first few hours, but after countless deaths, no one was willing to even voice any dissent, let alone *do* anything. Inside the women's quarters it was silent except for the occasional floor scraping or cough.

One of the women, Wyn, came and sat next to Namys. Her face was blank, her once lively demeanor having left. They sat in silence. Neither having the will to sleep or the energy to remain awake, the entire room seemed to hover on the edge.

Above them and a dusting of snow began to fall. Pure and white, it contrasted perfectly against the darkness the town now faced. A hole in the ceiling let some of the flakes in, cooling the interior. Even faced with hypothermia, no one moved.

This would be a long night.

Above Vauxnia
-------------

"Got it." Clem took off his headset and looked back at the thermal monitor, watching the movement on the island now that the sun had set. "The base just gave us authorization to make contact with the people who were invaded, though we are to avoid any militant groups."

The ship's emergency armory contained two rifles and a two pistols, enough for the pilot and copilot should anything happen. The rifle was a standard issue military rifle for defense if the ship went down, and it would not fit underneath the poncho Casey wore to conceal his mechanical parts, so he was stuck with the pistol. It didn't have much in the way of power, but it should help if he needed to defend himself. Only really showing his face, he looked almost human. "There's no way we completely avoid whoever invaded these people, but I'll try."

With a final visual check that the pistol was safe for the jump, he looked to Clem. The jump kit, usually used for fighting but now supremely useful for survival and exploration mobility, would slow Casey's fall to safe levels before he hit the ground with micro-jets. A final okay from Clem as he finished the jump kit diagnostics made Casey feel a bit safer, but it had been a while since he'd had to jump like this.

Suddenly filling the cabin, the frigid outside air didn't have much effect on the full crew of Simulacra inside as the rear cargo door opened.

"Well, here goes nothing."

The unfamiliar planet rushed to meet him, the poncho billowing out.

---

The landing was soft, thanks to the jump kit, and the poncho was more than welcome to keep the water off. Since darkness had fallen no more of the planes were in the air, so it was very unlikely that anyone had spotted him plummeting through the clouds.

*More fucking snow. I thought they said this place had liquid water and greenery.*

After checking his communication equipment, Casey got out his pistol and readied it while scanning his surroundings. According to the photos they had taken above, the edge of town should be to the west, away from the massive number of people near the water. There was one building he wanted to visit. According to thermal imaging, there were a bunch of people inside, and some of them had been taken during the day. Furthest from the perpetrators of the slaughter, they seemed like the easiest way to make contact without going against the guidelines from home.

All around him were evergreen trees and other flora, and according to quick scans they were almost all the same composition as the old flora in the archives from Earth, before it became uninhabitable.

*Interesting. Everything here feels like it's out of an old novel or ancient history book.*

He walked through the forest, careful to move silently, but even the animals had run away from the village so there was no one to disturb.

*"Look out, Casey, it looks like a couple of people are heading into the forest."*

A data-link opened up and Casey could see what Clem saw, three heat signatures moving into the forest. If they kept going in that direction, they would end up walking a few meeters away from where he currently hid. Without even knowing it, the pistol was in his hand and held at a low ready close to his chest. If they did spot him, that would be unfortunate. The poncho was non-reflective on one side, and in the darkness it blended in with the undergrowth just fine.

*"They're not deviating, keep your sensors out for anything."*

Casey noticed a light moving through the forest. As it got closer, it became clear it was two lights.

"Get moving!" One of the voices called out, a light seeming to turn around and lose intensity. A defeated gasp echoed around the trees. "Come on, get up of we'll just get it over with right here."

"Nah, it's too fucking cold, let's get deeper into the forest, it should at least have less snow there." Another voice, gruffer and lower, responded.

*At least we can understand them. They seem to be speaking Galactic Common, so that's one problem taken care of. Though with what I suspect is going to happen, I'm not sure I want to understand.*

They were finally close enough to be seen, and their hypothesis looked to be correct. They walked and looked human, with human faces and features. Two of them were clad in gray uniforms made of a heavy wool-like material, with painted metal helmets. They both had long rifles with wooden stocks, ancient but still powerful weapons. Between them was a woman being dragged across the underbrush. Wearing only soft leather boots, light pants and a shirt, her skin was starting to turn blue from the cold. Her hands were bound roughly in a thick rope, one end leading to the leading man's hand as he dragged her along.

*"I can't just sit back and watch this happen, Clem."*

*"We have to. We can't get involved here."*

*"I get us not interfering when we're a few kilometers up, but I can almost touch these people."*

*"No, we can't do that without making contact and getting permission to--"*

There was no more need to argue his case. These people spoke Galactic Common, if they ask for help Casey would have to render it. There was a small empty shed nearby, probably a hunting blind or something of the sort, and the trio moved towards it. We had seen movement into the forest, but it was just the four of us here right now. They must have found this and prepared it during the day.

"Wait out here and don't move. We can't have you dirtying up the inside before we get comfortable."

They tied the woman to one of the evergreen branches and entered the small wooden shed. The lights stopped moving inside, replaced by moving shadows and the sound of dark laughter. The woman was freezing outside, and these men didn't care. Casey, seeing a chance to finally make contact, left his hiding place and quietly approached the woman.

His hand reached out to cover her mouth and keep her from screaming, though she didn't even try to scream, only slight surprise showing as she suddenly tensed up. As she turned, Casey brought a finger up to his lips, the universal symbol to be quiet. He hope it would work here.

Casey whispered, "I'm not going to hurt you, but I need your permission to help. If you ask for it I can save you."

---

Namys had started to go numb. Before the night, the soldiers stayed away from her, knowing that she had at least talked to their commander, but now that he was asleep, these soldiers had different ideas. They had walked her out to a hunters shack in the forest, currently empty for the season.

Now tied to a tree outside, she barely had the energy to stand, let alone fight. It was then that a cold hand reached out and covered her mouth. Preparing for the worst, she didn't even bother trying to scream.

"...save you."

The whispered words finally broke through Namys' fugue. What had this person just said? She looked at him quizzically, and he slowly removed his hand.

"Please, just ask and I can do something about this."

Her voice wasn't working, and the first syllable was lost in her frozen throat.

"...me please. Help us." The sound trailed off, quiet and almost inaudible. Namys barely heard it herself, but the person kneeling by her side smiled weakly and got a distant look in his eyes.

"Thank you." Taking off the cloak he wore caused Namys' eyes to widen. What she saw below wasn't human. It's face might have been, it even moved like a human face, but everything else was metal. Arms, legs torso, everything was metal, and it wasn't armor, it was too small. He wrapped her in the cloak and she instantly felt the warmth well up in her.

*Who...no, what are you?*

She thought the words had come out but they never did as he walked towards the hut. Attached to his leg was what looked like a pistol, and as he moved silently towards the hut she saw him draw it along with a large knife.

Why had *he* thanked *her*? As her mind raced through what just happened, she started to actually think about what was going on. Maybe this was all a hallucination. The warmth she felt must just be her finally dying from the cold. That must be it. Just before she closed her eyes from exhaustion and hypothermia, she saw light flood out of the door of the hut.

---

There was more warmth, suddenly, coming from a spot inside of the cloak.

"Here, this should help get rid of the hypothermia. I ran a quick diagnostic of your vitals, you were almost gone when I got back." The metal man had brought her into the hut, and as she started to sit up, she could see two men in gray outfits tied up in the corner. They were breathing, but not moving. "I don't usually carry water, but there was some in the hut that seemed mostly potable." The pewter mug blended into the metal man's frame as he handed it to her. "It's not poison or anything."

After drinking a small sip of the cold water, she felt her voice come back, finally.

"I...owe you my life."

"It's nothing. Had we been able to interfere earlier this whole massacre could have been prevented." He looked down at his hands. "If we could find the leader of this island, then maybe we could bring in more help, but as it is now we would have to ask every person individually."

"The leader...of Vauxnia?"

The metal man nodded. "Sorry, I haven't even thought to introduce myself. I'm Casey Simpson, I'm the head of the physical sciences department in our frontier research group." A gray metallic arm with an intricate hand reached out. Namys simply looked at it, entranced by the otherworldliness of the craftsmanship. "Oh, sorry. Do you not shake hands here? I'm not from around here. You said this place is called Vauxnia?"

"Up until today I was the leader of this small country. Then a country called the Gra Valkas Empire decided to invade out of nowhere."

.. todo:: Finish this bit.